Avoid Indicator Ossification (#152)
ietf-wg-scone/scone: draft-ietf-scone-protocol.md

This applies to both client and server endpoints,
but only if the peer has sent the transport parameter; see {{tp}}.

## Avoiding Ossification When Reading the Indicator

A network element could classify all 5-tuples where the first observed UDP
datagram ends in the indicator bytes as potential SCONE. A network element MAY

> apply further criteria to further reduce this set and minimize false positives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apply further criteria to further reduce the set of flows that are SCONE candidates and minimize false positives.
```

Reviewer 2: "SCONE candidates" seems to be something new and not defined,  and to avoid two "further"

I would rewrite as

Apply additional criteria to further reduce the set of flows that support SCONE and minimize the false positives.

Reviewer: Like so, I guess...
<img width="56" height="56" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/60a5c6d6-89c6-4c8f-823a-063ce3e59a3b" />

```suggestion
apply additional criteria to further reduce the set flows that are identified
as potentially supporting SCONE, reducing the likelihood of false positives.
```

Reviewer 2: yap!! much better.

However, it SHOULD NOT apply criteria that reduce the ability of new QUIC

> versions to employ SCONE. SCONE operated independently of any specific QUIC

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
versions to employ SCONE. SCONE operates independently of any specific QUIC
```
Fix the typo.

This applies to both client and server endpoints,
but only if the peer has sent the transport parameter; see {{tp}}.

## Avoiding Ossification When Reading the Indicator

A network element could classify all 5-tuples where the first observed UDP
datagram ends in the indicator bytes as potential SCONE. A network element MAY
apply further criteria to further reduce this set and minimize false positives.
However, it SHOULD NOT apply criteria that reduce the ability of new QUIC

> versions to employ SCONE. In particular, such criteria should consult the QUIC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
versions to employ SCONE. SCONE operates independently of any
specific QUIC version, so any criteria needs to fit within the QUIC
```

Author: Done

version invariants in {{INVARIANTS}}.

> 

Reviewer: Why not stop here?

For example, a network element could observe that the packet has the signature
of a QUIC version 1 or 2 packet, including use of a long header, and if so,
check that it meets the first-flight minimum datagram length of 1200 bytes for
that version. However, if the datagram matches a QUIC long header with an
unknown version, and has the indicator, it SHOULD treat it as a potential SCONE
flow regardless of datagram length.

In principle, a new QUIC version could have length-delimited short header
packets and allow them in the first flight of a connection. However, these
packets would not contain an explicit QUIC version number. Furthermore, short
headers can be the first packets in a QUICv1 or QUICv2 5-tuple after an address
or port migration, and these cannot contain the indicator. Therefore, network
elements MAY ignore short header packets even though it is theoretically
possible for future QUIC versions to support the SCONE indicator in a short
header.

> 

Reviewer 3: I agree with Martin T. We can do without these last 2 paragraphs. 

If we really want to belabor the point, it would be simpler to add a single sentence ad the end of the first paragraph, after `version invariants in {{INVARIANTS}}.` Something like, "In particular, the version number in the first observed packet will not always match QUICv1, and the length of the that packet could be lower than the minimal value set by QUICv1." But I don't think that's necessary.
